So let's work on the form elements styling; on the dropdown, the inputs here and the checkbox.
Now how does that work?
Let's start with the dropdown and the normal inputs. For that, I'll go to my code, to my CSS code here
and before we style the button but after the checkbox styles let's say, it's up to you where you position
it though, I'll add a style where I target signup-form and the inputs in that form, as well as the
select elements because these are the kinds of inputs we're using here on our page and there, I want
to restyle them.
I'll start with the border, which I'll set to 1 pixel solid and a light grey,
so #ccc is the hex code for a light grey-ish
look. I also want to give them some padding, let's say .2rem to top and bottom and .5rem to left
and right
and if we save that, we can see a slight change, right,
so not for the select element but for these inputs.
Now one thing we can also see if we type in there is that if you watch closely, the font seems to be
a different one,
it's not the same font as we use on the rest of the page,
also it's too small.
So we want to use the same font of course and we can achieve this by adding font: inherit to tell
it
it should not use the browser defaults, which we can see if we select it before reloading the page,
there we can see that the browser sets various text styles, more about text in the next module
by the way but we want to use our defaults for the text and for the font.
So by setting font: inherit on these elements, if I save that and reload,
now our elements increased a bit in size
and now when we type there, we get the same font family as on the rest of the page, which of course is
what we want probably.
Now regarding the dropdown, it clearly looks a bit different than the other elements
and we will change some of the stylings there but you should keep in mind that the dropdown, the select here
of course is a special element where you actually want to use the browser defaults in many cases because
you want to have these arrows on the right,
you want to have that built-in behavior of getting that dropdown list without needing to write any custom
Javascript code.
That is why I will stick to the defaults we got here, at the end of this module however, you find an article
where you also find various links to resources, where you can dive deeper into restyling even built-in
elements a bit more
and that being said, we will restyle that checkbox together in this module.
So we'll leave the select as it is for now,
we'll leave the inputs here as they are,
however I'm not so happy about that blue border here and this border actually turns out to not be a
border. If we select an input like this one and we click here in the developer tools, on that
:hover thing here, we can trigger a certain pseudo selector
and in this case for input element, that's the focus selector. If I trigger this here, you see the focus
style as it appears when you click in there
but now all the time even if your mouse is outside of there.
So this is now our focus style
and with that triggered, if we scroll down, we can see that for this being focused, we got an outline
here, a
webkit-focus-ring-color-auto outline.
Now what is an outline, is
this the same as a border? An outline is kind of comparable to a border
but there are some crucial differences,
for example the outline always comes after the border, so you can have both, it's added outside of the
border.
It's not counting towards the box size
and it also is not doing anything on the box shadow,
so if you have a big outline, this won't affect your box shadow for example.
So outline is a great tool to mark that this has been focused but I want to change the way we do that
actually still.
So what I'll add after my selectors here is another rule where I target signup-form input
and now with :focus, I target the focus state and the same for the select element.
Now I want to set a different style when we focus this and I'll actually set the outline to none, though you
could of course also use a different color here and I'll change instead the background color of these
elements, I'll change to a very light grey which has the hex code
#d8f3df and I'll change the border color,
we do have a border,
keep that in mind I just want the change of color now,
to the green we're using on our page already.
So this green color which we also have in our shared folder in the navigation bar for example as a background,
this here,
this is the hex code
I also want to use here as a border color. With that if we save that and reload it, if I click in there,
now we get a different look and actually this is no light grey, excuse me, it's a light green of course,
should fit the border.
So now we have that look, also for the dropdown
whenever we target these elements, fits the rest of our page a bit better and green always looks positive
I guess.
So with that, we made some work on restyling these inputs, we ensured that they use our general font and
that we can manipulate their styles,
of course you can do to them whatever you want to do.
Now I also want to restyle the checkbox though and for that, if we select the checkbox, we see that actually
it already received some styles,
we already target it with our signup-form input styles and we're setting a border padding and font,
it's just not doing anything because that clickable text box thingy here is something special in our
browser in the end and we'll work on that.
Now we will work on it in the next lecture.